WSClean version 3.2
===================

Released 2022-10-21

New/changed dependencies:

* To make use of EveryBeam, WSClean 3.2 requires `EveryBeam version 0.4.0 <https://git.astron.nl/RD/EveryBeam/-/releases/v0.4.0>`_.
* The requirements on IDG have not been changed; WSClean 3.2 requires `IDG version 1.0 <https://git.astron.nl/RD/idg/-/releases/1.0.0>`_ or newer.

Summary: 

Major & visible changes
-----------------------

* Add support for direction dependent PSFs in deconvolution (parameter ``-dd-psf-grid``).
* Support heterogenously polarized measurement sets (`#130 <https://gitlab.com/aroffringa/wsclean/-/issues/130>`_).
* Make use of the low-memory interface of EveryBeam. This reduces the amount of memory required for large image runs and additionally reduces the disk IO substantially.
* Include an experimental, potentially faster tuned wgridder implementation.
* Automatically determine right amount of memory and threads to use in parallel runs.
* The various ``-use-...-gridder`` are replaced by a single ``-gridder <name>`` option.
* Support spectral fitting when polarizations are joined.
* Better automatic determination of number of cores to be used.
* Fix point-scale auto-masking on data with missing channels (`Radler #114 <https://gitlab.com/aroffringa/wsclean/-/issues/114>`_).
* Calculate and save the MFS beam when relevant.
* In facetted imaging, replace NaN solutions by zeros.

Bug fixes
---------

* Fix a crash when using local rms + multiscale.
* Fix a flux-scale issue when applying the primary beam on Stokes I imaging runs (see `!465 <https://gitlab.com/aroffringa/wsclean/-/merge_requests/465>`_ and `!441 <https://gitlab.com/aroffringa/wsclean/-/merge_requests/441>`_).
* Solve crash when compiling with ``_GLIBCXX_ASSERTIONS``.
* Fix compilation on Macs.
* Allow custom HDF5 directory.
* Fix multi-polarization imaging without joining pols (`#128 <https://gitlab.com/aroffringa/wsclean/-/issues/128>`_).
* Allow facets to be defined outside the FOV, and skip these during imaging.
* Fix missing FITS file error when faceting without applying beam.
* Improve some error messages.
* Make sure exceptions are reported while gridding in parallel.
* Fix FITS ``LONPOLE`` issue causing incorrect image coordinates at the pole.
* Output correct source lists when using ``-shift`` (`#98 <https://gitlab.com/aroffringa/wsclean/-/issues/98>`_).
* Fixes for GCC-12.

Other significant code changes
------------------------------

* Format python files using black.
* Documentation improvements.
* Separate deconvolution code into separate library: `Radler <https://git.astron.nl/RD/radler>`_

